[Home](index.html) [About](about.html) [Physics](research.html)
[Economics](posts.html) [Games](games.html) [Misc](misc.html)

###  A Desert Island

Murray Rothbard and Ayn Rand wash up on a dessert Island after a shipwreck.
The island has an abundance of coconuts, but they are difficult and dangerous
to obtain and eat. Ayn Rand arrived first from the wreckage, and while
Rothbard was still swimming, claimed all the coconuts and the entire island as
her private property. Rothbard, being an honourable gentleman who respects
private property rights, offers to trade some of his labor gathering the
coconuts in exchange for being able to keep some of them. Rand agrees, and
they settle on giving Rothbard a steady wage to sustain him for gathering a
daily quota of coconuts.

Tired from the hard work of gathering coconuts, Rothbard creates a device that
allows him to much more safely and efficiently gather the coconuts. Rand sees
this and notices Rothbard more effortlessly meeting his quota with much time
to spare. If she is self interested, and wishes to gorge on coconuts or build
a hut from coconuts shells, she may decide to increase the quota, which she
may get away with because she has the leverage of controlling permission to
access any coconuts in the first place.

Poor Rothbard's inventions only increase the conspicuous consumption of Rand,
and any increase in his standard of living is only through her charitable
generosity of letting him keep some of the productivity and wealth he created.
This would be true even if it weren't a monopoly, and there were multiple
owners of different patches of coconuts, since every time Rothbard creates a
labor saving device the equilibrium shifts such that they can all demand
higher output than before, though perhaps not in proportion to the labor saved
by Rothbard. Either way, Rand, or a bunch of owners, get to kick back and
collect the fruits of Rothbard's labor AND improvements in technology by
Rothbard in perpetuity all because they called "dibs". Rothbard might
certainly become demotivated and not bother trying to invent any more devices,
or attempt to be any more productive than appearances warrant.

Awhile after Rand and Rothbard become resentful and starve to death, Karl Marx
and Friedrich Engels get shipwrecked on the same island. Seeing the dead
bodies and deducing that their demise was due to the folly of capitalist
greed, they vow not to repeat the same mistakes and establish a glorious
communist utopia. They agree to share ownership over all coconuts, and labor
saving devices involved in obtaining them, only keeping what they obtain
directly through labor.

This goes well at first, both Marx and Engels tire from the work of getting
coconuts, but there is solidarity in their hardship. However, Engels starts to
think there must be an easier way.

