[Home](index.html) [About](about.html) [Physics](research.html)
[Economics](posts.html) [Games](games.html) [Misc](misc.html)

# The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism

##  Daniel Bell

This was a pretty good book that explored the history of capitalist countries,
and in particular the United States. Bell argues that the Puritans that came
to the US from Europe believed in a moral imperative to work hard, consume
little, and live simply. This created an economic and social surplus that
allowed the US to accumulate capital and expand, eventually culminating in
it's pre-eminent dominance on the world stage.

However, these religious and cultural drives that build wealth, are themselves
dissipated by that wealth. The rationale for new peoples and posterior
generations to adopt and uphold this system are fundamentally materialistic,
which is directly at odds with the asceticism required to build it in the
first place.

There is a trope in the US of a hard working immigrant, looking for a better
life, only to have their children become Americanized, with each passing
generation becoming more consumerist and further believing hard work is for
suckers. Of course, it is possible to fend off this trend, but the pretexts
for doing so aren't usually due to the personal utility gained by the agents
in the way capitalist economists would model. The Amish don't live the way
they do because it is easy or efficient, but because they have beliefs that
take precedence over personal utility and they insulate themselves from the
larger American culture.

Bell restates this basic central thesis in several ways, but a prescription or
solution is ultimately not provided, and the end is left inconclusive. He also
spends a few chapters talking about trends in art, about different styles such
as modernism, but I found those not very interesting and having little to do
with the rest of the book.

Overall this book examines an interesting question, one which is implicit in
many social issues about the incentives of individuals and their relationship
to society, but not usually clarified in such detail.

